last week we watched a history of
hunting part 1 about Native Americans
this week we're going to deal with the
first settlers that came in Kentucky and
how it changed things by the 1760s you
had a whole new type of American hunter
called the the long hunter long hunters
were known for their duration of hunt
they would be away for a long time and
they would travel typically great
distances these men would go in pack
horses with their supplies and bring
back hundreds and thousands of deer and
that was the the exchange typically in
the more settled areas so it's massive
amounts of deerskin they're not eating
the deer it's it was very very common to
just come up on numbers of deer cars
carcasses that were just rotting the
deer skins were imported throughout
Europe it was a massive industry and
nobody really thought about any hint of
conservation it was puzzling to the
Indians how do you deal with these men
for every deer that fell - a long hunter
gun could have fallen to an Indian gun
and so the two ideas soared as the
traders would come in they would bring
in new commodities blankets they would
bring in beads they would bring in wool
they would bring in trade silver and so
these were desirable things T oftentimes
the liquor trade was extensive and so
basically what happens is you began to
have conflicts
they would shoot nine ten twelve Buffalo
take all the tongues leave the
restaurant they'd seen other drove maybe
the next day maybe later that afternoon
do the same thing take the tongues leave
the restaurant and then and that's you
know in a drove that size you're taking
maybe seven or twelve tons of meat and
then within two or three days they would
complain from lack of food
how many Buffalo died because of that
just that piece of meat right there well
if you if you would be talking about the
entire United States I would say you
know twenty to thirty million for the
tongue this is the the Buffalo tongue
this is a pretty hot but this is the
most succulent part of the Buffalo is
high in fat high in protein
we kind of the Adkins diet of the
frontier and it had a sweet buttery kind
of taste we can eat some I don't know if
you want to know what once you slice me
off a piece I want to see all right I
want to see what this tastes like that's
the best cut of the meat
Wow good Wow
I'm astounded right no we got some other
parts and pieces here that were charade
as well they like the bone marrow the
bone marrow was a just about as much as
a delicacy as the as the tongue the
pollen with the bone marrow was was
getting to it because you know it did
send the femur and the shank bones you
got to get him you got to bust him open
and and it taste very very similar and
again like the tongue the marrow is
gonna be primarily fat it's it's it's
tough to get to them you've got to bust
them up with axes or rocks or whatever
and just throw them on the fire and cook
it this the interior of the bone oh and
that is good with the marrow bones
there's several accounts of men that
would begin eating marrow and it's like
they couldn't stop eating it
this particular piece of the Buffalo in
fact they usually come in twos but these
are the Buffalo Gounod's and again these
are quite a delicacy and they go down
easy you welcome to their
maybe of good telling you what I'll take
this one kill my god
now when was the last sighting again of
the Buffalo in Kentucky well the actual
last documented sighting that can be
verified was in 1802 by andré Michaux
who was a french botanist and this is in
the area of Green River now there was
several taverns like around Lexington
and Midway in Paris Kentucky and so
forth that specialize in Buffalo steaks
by 1810 1812 they no longer had them on
the menu because they couldn't get on so
you can kind of infer then that they
were you know if not gone pretty well
diminished shot out now what about
records of elk when did they start to
disappear well the elk is a little bit
more problematic - in my opinion - to
talk about because the records are a
little bit bigger but again by the time
of statehood 8 1792 they were thinning
dramatically i think that the last
kentucky sighting of elk is in the 1840s
1850s what it was the most wasteful
thing that had happened every March
April May they would fire up the cane
lands they would just destroy literally
thousands of acres of cane you can read
the accounts where they the fires would
burn at night they would burn
uncontrollably they would they would
sweep cabins and so there they were just
the most wasteful practice was probably
not hunting even though that was
incredibly wasteful but it was a
combination of that plus the the
destruction of the habitat and it was
always rapacious hunting there was
always over killing there was all there
was no regard to hunting seasons and
guest station periods you had that but
probably the breeds could have survived
if they would have maintained some sense
of habitat and they didn't all right
tune in next week to part 3 and we'll
call that one restoration